# Bolton Brackenbury

The woman Bolton was visiting is the widow of your good friend the late Archy Shropshire. Here is the background:

The widow Lady Hortence "Tawnsy" Shropshire was the wife of the late Lord Archibald "Archy" Shropshire. Archy's father Harold was an incredible man, wealthy, emblematic of the dignity and honor of the empire, and an Admiral of the Royal Navy. When Harold was killed in France during the War of the First Coalition 25 years ago, Archy (with Tawnsy's support - they were engaged at the time) decided to fund a magnificent replacement of St. Chad's church in Shrewsbury in Lord Harold's honor. The new church is a work of art (PIC). When Archy died in action during the Burning of Washington (you were feet from him when it happened), Tawnsy decided to co-dedicate the beautiful new church to both Harold and Archy. You were visiting to be there for the commemoration, and comfort her in her grief.

Archy's death possibly contributed to your feelings about the military. You and Archy were very close, serving together on <ship> for over two years. Three years ago your ship sailed with Major General Robert Ross up the Patuxent River MAP. Your detachment, lead by the astute, honorable, but petulant Admiral Cockburn LINK marched from the landing at Pig Point all the way to Washington.

The day following the burning of Madison's Whitehouse, with which you were not involved, Cockburn lead your detachment to a newspaper printing house that had frequently maligned him in the papers with the aim to burn it. Cockburn said, "Be sure that all the C's are destroyed, so that the rascals cannot any longer abuse my name." Some ladies pleaded with Archy not to burn the place, lest the fire destroy their homes as well. Archy, ever an honorable soul, took it up with Cockburn, who relented and ordered the place destroyed by hand. During that destruction, a giant printing press fell upon and crushed Archy's left leg. The leg was amputated, but loss of blood and possible sepsis killed Archy within days. These ignominious circumstances will never pass your lips to the widow Shropshire's ears.

Admiral George Cockburn was appointed a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath on 4 January 1815. In August 1815, Cockburn was given the job of conveying Napoleon I in the third-rate HMS Northumberland to Saint Helena. Cockburn remained there for some months as governor of the island and Commander-in-Chief of the Cape of Good Hope Station.

On the day of the dedication ceremony, you arrived at St. Chads quite early and were given a tour, but also had a long period of waiting.

Also present was your acquaintance (and Tawnsy's very good friend) financier Doctor Robert Darwin. When his eight year old son Charles (pic) confessed to you that he was baptized in that church "but now we attend Unitarian chapel", you took pity on the lad's boredom. You told him stories of your travels around the world, to America, to Borneo and more. He was fascinated and swore upon his honor that he also would become a great explorer. You listened patiently as he chattered about learning all about the natural world at his Unitarian day school. His mother Susannah thanked you profusely.
