# World Order

Five "Great Powers" exist in Europe. The Napoleonic wars are recently ended, resolved at Waterloo and with the restoration of monarchy at the Congress of Vienna. The remainder of the world is primitive, savage. America is small, recently possessed of the untamed Louisiana Territories from Napoleon.

## Background

Key elements in the world that matter to gameplay include:

* British empire and navy are strong  
* Completion of the Napoleonic wars and re-establishment of European monarchies  
* Strong egalitarian feelings across Europe generated by French thought and events  
* Slavery and the anti-slavery agreements at Vienna  
* Eruption of Mount Tambora creates the Year without a Summer, which continues  
* Recent scientific and medical innovations  
* Calcutta sees massive cholera outbreak  

Map of Europe (and large simplified map)

France, Austria\*, Great Britain\*, Prussia\*, Russia\*, Sweden, Spain, and Portugal

## !Congress of Vienna

**DEETS**

In 1815, to eradicate Napoleon and end 23 years of war, the Congress of Vienna was held, with these goals:

* Reinstating the "Ancient Regime" of monarchy  
* Carefully balanced power such that Europe would remain at peace  
* Restrain or eliminate republicanism and revolution  

New European boundaries were essentially drawn by only five men, despite many other rulers and representatives of lesser powers attending. France lost all Napoleonic gains to Russia, Prussia and Austria.

**Representative — Great Power — Monarch**

Klemens, prince von Metternich — Austrian Empire — (Emperor Francis II)  
Tsar Alexander I of Russia — Russia — (himself)  
Karl, prince von Hardenberg — Prussia — (King Frederick William III)  
Viscount Castlereagh (and others) — Great Britain — (King George III)  
Charles-Maurice de Talleyrand — French Empire — (Louis XVIII, restored)

### Drama at the Congress

**Napoleon's Return** — Negotiations continued despite the outbreak of fighting triggered by Napoleon's dramatic return from exile and resumption of power in France during the Hundred Days of March to July 1815. The Congress's "final act" was signed nine days before his final defeat at Waterloo on 18 June 1815.

**Polish-Saxon Crisis** — Russia wanted most of Poland, but Austria and Britain feared this would make Russia much too powerful. Crafty Talleyrand proposed a solution: admit France to the inner circle, and France would support Austria and Britain. The three nations signed a secret treaty, agreeing to go to war against Russia and Prussia, if necessary. When the Tsar heard of the secret treaty he agreed to a compromise, getting only part of Poland.

## Britain

**MAP**

Ruled by parliament and the often insane King George III, his son George IV steps in as Regent when he must, thus defining the so-called "Regency Era". George IV is seen as a lackadaisical dilettante by most, distracted by dandies like Beau Brummel.

In Britain the Year without a Summer is causing famine. Reactionary **Luddites** sabotage burgeoning lace factories. **Spencians** (essentially egalitarian socialists inspired by the French Revolution) threaten the government and attack the Tower of London, meeting with ruthless suppression. Regular people, feeling unrepresented, rebel and this culminates in the **Peterloo Massacre** in 1819 and the **Six Acts**, a paranoid legal crackdown on the freedoms of the public and press.

The Pax Britannica begins, and the six-ship West Africa Squadron patrols the entire west coast of Africa to interdict slave ships and enforce the no-slavery agreement of the Congress of Vienna.

Ireland suffers from famine, with many emigrating to London.

## Europe

There are five European "Great Powers", well understood as such in Britain. The "Great Powers" constituted the **Concert of Europe** and claimed the right to joint enforcement of the postwar treaties.

### Austrian Empire

Created 1804 by proclamation of the Habsburg Francis II. The third most populous European monarchy, ruling 240,000 square miles. It remained part of the Holy Roman Empire until the latter's dissolution in 1806.

### Prussia

**DEETS**  
A large German kingdom with Berlin as its capital.

### Russia

A great power, but not significant in this campaign world.

### France

Reeling from the defeat of Napoleon and the loss of conquered territories, yet still a very strong nation. Now under the Bourbon monarch Louis XVIII.

### Others

**Spain** — Embroiled in chaos after defeat by Napoleon, bereft of looted treasures, and rapidly losing colonies in the New World.

**Portugal** — Diminished from its glory days in the 1500s, it still holds colonies abroad and has more impact outside of Europe than within. Brazil is getting bigger than its parent, Portugal.

## Africa

Britain began the Blockade of Africa.

## America

**MAP**

Independent from Britain only 34 years (since 1783), more than half of its land area still depends on an economy of slavery. Much of the north thrives on industry, and a westward push into the newly acquired Louisiana Territories has begun. The flag of the US is finally adopted in 1818.
